Edits to PGD PR5293 (#5360)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/durability/commit-scope-rules.mdx

title: Commit scope rules
---

Commit scope rules are at the core of the commit scope mechanism. They define what the commit scope enforces. 

> Commit scope rules are composed of one or more operations connected by an `AND`. 

Author: ```suggestion
Commit scope rules are composed of one or more operations that work in combination. Use an AND between rules.
```

title: Commit scope rules
---

Commit scope rules are at the core of the commit scope mechanism. They define what the commit scope enforces. 

Commit scope rules are composed of one or more operations connected by an `AND`. 

> 

Author: This seemed more idiomatic and clear to me

Author: Or maybe just be more explicit? 

Commit scope rules are composed of one or more operations that work in combination. Use an `AND` between rules.

Does that work?

Reviewer: Go with that then.

Each operation is made up of two or three parts: the commit scope group, an optional confirmation level, and the kind of commit scope, which can have its own parameters.

```
commit_scope_group [ confirmation_level ] commit_scope_kind
```

A full formal syntax diagram is available in the [Commit scopes](/pgd/latest/reference/commit-scopes/#commit-scope-syntax) reference.

> This typical commit scope rule can be broken down into its components:

Author: These edits...I was trying to follow the logic. The use of the word "here" was confusing me, and I ultimately decided it all meant to refer to the same example. Let me know if I get any of what was meant here wrong and we can revisit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical commit scope rule, such as `ANY 2 (group) GROUP COMMIT`, can be broken down into its components:
```

Maybe clearer - just lose the code block below.

Oh and the "here" is something I completely forgot as this content started as a conversational examination of scopes.

```
ANY 2 (group) GROUP COMMIT
```

The `ANY 2 (group)` is the commit scope group specifying, for the rule, which nodes need to respond and confirm they processed the transaction. In this example, any two nodes from the named group must confirm.

No confirmation level is specified, which means that the default is used. You can think of the rule in full, then, as:

```
ANY 2 (group) ON visible GROUP COMMIT
```

The `visible` setting means the nodes can confirm once all the transaction's changes are flushed to disk and visible to other transactions.

The last part of this operation is the commit scope kind, which in this example is `GROUP COMMIT`. `GROUP COMMIT` is a synchronous two-phase commit that's confirmed when any two nodes in the named group confirm they've flushed the transactions changes and made them visible.

## The commit scope group

> There are three kinds of commit scope groups: `ANY`, `ALL`, and `MAJORITY`. They're all followed by a list of one or more groups in parentheses. This list of groups combines to make a pool of nodes this this operation applies to. This list can be preceded by `NOT`, which inverts to pool to all other groups apart from those in the list. Witness nodes aren't eligible to be included in this pool, as they don't replicate data.

Author: Does the newly formed sentence make sense?

Author: I think this construction is a little easier to parse. Okay?

- `ANY n` is followed by an integer value, `n`. It translates to any `n` nodes in the listed group's nodes.
- `ALL` is followed by the groups and translates to all nodes in the listed groups nodes.
- `MAJORITY` is followed by the groups and translates to requiring a half, plus one, of the listed group's nodes to confirm, to give a majority.
- `ANY n NOT` is followed by an integer value, `n`. It translates to any `n` nodes that aren't in the listed group's nodes.
- `ALL NOT` is followed by the groups and translates to all nodes that aren't in the listed group's nodes.
- `MAJORITY NOT` is followed by the groups and translates to requiring a half, plus one, of the nodes that aren't in the listed group's nodes to confirm, to give a majority.

> 

Author: The em dash treatment usually wouldn't have a lower-cased verb following. These read more like sentences than what I'd call our typical "definition list" that includes the em-dash. I think they read fine without the em-dash (easier to read).

- Whether to track transactions over interruptions (Boolean, defaults to off) 
- How to resolve conflicts (`async` or `eager`, defaults to `async`)
- How to obtain a consensus (`group`, `partner` or `raft`, defaults to `group`)

For more details, see [`GROUP COMMIT`](group-commit).

### `CAMO`

Commit At Most Once, or CAMO, allows the client/application, origin node, and partner node to ensure that a transaction is committed to the database at most once. Because the client is involved in the process, an application will require modifications to participate in the CAMO process. 

For more details, see [`CAMO`](camo).

### `LAG CONTROL`

With Lag Control, when the system's replication performance exceeds specified limits, a commit delay can be automatically injected into client interaction with the database, providing a back pressure on clients. Lag Control has parameters to set the maximum commit delay that can be exerted. It also has limits in terms of time to process or queue size that trigger increases in that commit delay.

For more details, see [`LAG CONTROL`](lag-control).

### `SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT`

> Synchronous Commit is a commit scope option that's designed to be like the legacy `synchronous_commit` option, but it's accessible in the commit scope environment. Unlike `GROUP COMMIT`, it's a synchronous non-two-phase commit operation, and it has no parameters. The preceding commit scope group controls the groups and confirmation requirements the `SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT` uses.

Author: ```suggestion
Synchronous Commit is a commit scope option that's designed to be like the legacy `synchronous_commit` option, but it's accessible in the commit scope environment. Unlike `GROUP COMMIT`, it's a synchronous non-two-phase commit operation, and it has no parameters. The commit commit scope group that comes before this option controls the groups and confirmation requirements the `SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT` uses.
```

For more details, see [`SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT`](synchronous_commit).

## Combining rules

> A rule can have multiple operations connected by an `AND` to form a single rule. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
Commit scope rules are composed of one or more operations that work in combination. Use an AND to form a single rule. For example:
```

- Whether to track transactions over interruptions (Boolean, defaults to off) 
- How to resolve conflicts (`async` or `eager`, defaults to `async`)
- How to obtain a consensus (`group`, `partner` or `raft`, defaults to `group`)

For more details, see [`GROUP COMMIT`](group-commit).

### `CAMO`

Commit At Most Once, or CAMO, allows the client/application, origin node, and partner node to ensure that a transaction is committed to the database at most once. Because the client is involved in the process, the application requires modifications to participate in the CAMO process. 

For more details, see [`CAMO`](camo).

### `LAG CONTROL`

With Lag Control, when the system's replication performance exceeds specified limits, a commit delay can be automatically injected into client interaction with the database, providing a back pressure on clients. Lag Control has parameters to set the maximum commit delay that can be exerted. It also has limits in terms of time to process or queue size that trigger increases in that commit delay.

For more details, see [`LAG CONTROL`](lag-control).

### `SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT`

> Synchronous Commit is a commit scope option that's designed to be like the legacy `synchronous_commit` option, but it's accessible in the commit scope environment. Unlike `GROUP COMMIT`, it's a synchronous non-two-phase commit operation, and it has no parameters. The preceding commit scope group controls the groups and confirmation requirements the `SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT` uses.

Author: I wasn't sure what you meant by "the preceding commit scope group."

For more details, see [`SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT`](synchronous_commit).

## Combining rules

> A rule can have multiple operations connected by an `AND` to form a single rule. For example:

Author: Same as the other edit; seemed more idiomatic.

Author: See earlier comment.
